
true 

false 
32 

2147483647 
256 
2000 
[] 
[] 
247 

1804289383 
0 
1 
0 
772 
[[]] 
"stack" 
"/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/local/games:/usr/games:/sbin:/usr/sbin" 
"" 
4 
1 
3 
2 
4 
1 
2 
3 
65 

'A 
1 
1.5 
1 
-1.5 
1 
0 
-0 
1.5 
-1 
-1.5 
-1 
1.5 
1 
-1.5 
2 
0 
2 
1.4013e-45 
"0000000001" 
"0.0000000000" 
nan 
nan 
0.982794 
2 
2.35241 
4.48169 
1 
0.405465 
2.12928 
1.22474 
0.905148 
0.54042 
2.75568 
1 
1 
6 
12 
1 
2.5 
2.5 

true 
2.5 
-1 

true 

"test" 
{1 2 3} 
"test" 

{1 2 3} 

{1 2 3} 
1.5 
{1 2 3} 

1.5 

"test" 
1.5 
1.5 
2.5 

1 
1 
[2 3] 

1 
1 
[1] 

{4 5 6} 

false 

false 

false 
{1 2 3} 
"test" 

{1 2 3} 

true 

true 

true 

true 

true 
wo 13 mei 2020 11:46:39 CEST
nothing small_set size_str size_set concat_set take_str take_set 
drop_str drop_set unswons_str unswons_set uncons_set rest_set rest_str 
first_set first_str fcompare fmin fmax fneg fsign fabs put_list_bool 
put_list_set put_list_char put_list_chr put_list_dbl put_list_sym 
put_list_str put_list_int put_list put_set put_sym put_bool put_char 
put_dbl put_int put_str uncons_str null_str get_data space ps nl x xor 
while user unswons unstack undefs undeferror uncons unary unary4 unary3 
unary2 trunc true treestep treerec treegenrec time times ternary tan 
tanh take tailrec system swons swap swapd succ strtol strtod string 
strftime step stdout stdin stderr stack srand sqrt split some small 
size sin sinh sign setundeferror setsize set setecho setautoput 
sametype round rotate rotated rollup rollupd rolldown rolldownd rest 
rem rand quit put putch putchars primrec pred pow pop popd + pick over 
or ord opcase of null nullary not != neg name * modf mktime - min max 
maxint map manual log logical log10 localtime list linrec < <= leaf 
ldexp intern integer in infra index include in1 i ifte ifstring ifset 
iflogical iflist ifinteger iffloat iffile ifchar id identical help 
helpdetail has > gmtime get getenv getch >= genrec gc fwrite ftell 
fseek frexp frename fremove fread fputstring fput fputch fputchars 
format formatf fopen fold floor float first filter filetime file fgets 
fget fgetch fflush ferror feof fclose false exp equal = enconcat echo 
dup dupd drop / div dip cosh cos conts construct cons condnestrec 
condlinrec cond concat compare clock cleave chr choice char ceil 
casting case branch body binrec binary autoput at atan atan2 asin argv 
argc app4 app3 app2 app1 app12 app11 and all acos abs abort 
__symtabmax __symtabindex __settracegc __memorymax __memoryindex 
__manual_list __latex_manual __html_manual _help __dump 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
4 
3 
6 
5 
4 
3 
8 
[1 +] 

[1 +] 
[+] 
integer
1 
char

'A 
logical

true 
string
"test" 
set

{1 2 3} 
float
1.5 
file
file:stdin 

[2 <] 
['t <] 


[2 <] 

false 
